since 1853 the Royal Yacht Club of
Victoria has been racing from its home
port of Williamstown on the
world-renowned Port Phillip Bay 35 miles
long by 30 miles wide with reliable and
steady brazzers a little if no current
it is the perfect stretch of water for
state national and world championship
regattas Royals has successfully hosted
the 1999 49er world's two thousand two
point four meter worlds and recently the
2007 flying fifteen Nationals while the
excellent sale Melbourne grade 10 south
event seas sailors from around the world
come to Melbourne to compete on this
excellent race course every year we run
over 200 races for all classes of yachts
each year in fleet team and match racing
events we have a professionally employed
race manager as well as a pool of
dedicated volunteers that deliver a very
high level of race management we have an
extensive range of on water assets with
three motor launches and several ribs
allowing us to run multiple courses for
split or separate fleets as needed
Royals has fantastic facilities to cater
to all types of boats from ocean racing
keel boats to international keelboat
classes and dinghies to hard stand
cranes allow quick and easy launching
and retrieval of boat into the water
while the travel lift and slip way
allows larger visiting yachts to be
serviced a substantial hard stand means
even largest fleets can be accommodated
in safety
we're dining facilities of expensive
seating areas the club is a great place
to relax both before and after racing we
can also cater for competitive functions
and presentation nights in our friendly
Clubhouse bring your family along as we
can arrange spectator boats to watch the
racing or they may wish to enjoy some of
the many sightseeing activities on offer
Royals is conveniently and safely tucked
away in hobsons bay at the northern end
of Port Phillip just several miles
across the water from the city of
Melbourne located on the shore of
historic maritime port cosmopolitan
Williamstown offers a huge range of
restaurants
cafes
shopping
beaches
and entertainment there is accommodation
for all budgets from service departments
through the B & Bs and some homestay
options
there are two channel reason town and
many marine professionals offering sail
making rigging and boat building
services
Melbourne is the world's most livable
city and just a short scenic ferry ride
up the era from Jim pier right next door
to the Royals clubhouse in williamstown
you'll discover a fabulous array of art
galleries and museums
including the unique federation square
whilst the shopping is without equal
our life theaters carry many of the
latest shows while the Australian opera
and ballet perform regularly
year-round there are always events to
attend the Australian tennis open
cricket and football matches of the MCG
the Melbourne Formula One Grand Prix and
the avalonians national air show is too
few they may wish to include in your
visit then there's the sights of
Victoria making a holiday around the
regatta even more exciting locally we
have the world-famous great ocean road
where you will see the Twelve Apostles
Bells Beach at torquay is the heart of
the Surf Coast a long stretch of surfing
beaches and holiday towns for wildlife
the ever-popular penguin parade at
Phillip Island is a must see at night
while during the day he'll want to see
koalas and kangaroos in their natural
habitat why not rent a car and spend a
week or so exploring along the way are
many unique towns and even great
wineries what a fantastic way to unwind
of course is Australia's other famous
sites sydney harbour with its iconic
bridge in Opera House the gorgeous
beaches and coral reefs of North
Queensland and the timeless beauty of
Allah ruin Australia's red Center all
very accessible once you've started your
trip here in Melbourne come race with us
at the Royal Yacht Club the Victoria or
what we're sure will be the best selling
you'll ever enjoy along with the
attractions of Williamstown Melbourne
Victoria and the rest of Australia you
may well be in for the trip of your
lifetime
you